README.md, before:

# Canvas MCP

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp)](https://smithery.ai/server/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp)

Canvas MCP is a set of tools that allows your AI agents to interact with Canvas LMS and Gradescope.

![gradescope](assets/gradescope_mcp_ant.png)

![example](assets/example.png)

## Features

- **Find relevant resources** - Ability to find relevant resources for a given query in natural language!
- **Query upcoming assignments** - Not only fetch upcoming assignments, but also provide its breakdown for a given course.
- **Get courses and assignments from Gradescope** - Query your Gradescope courses and assignments with natural language, get submission status, and more!
- Get courses
- Get modules
- Get module items
- Get file url
- Get calendar events
- Get assignments
- and so much more... 

## Usage

Note down the following beforehand:
1. Canvas API Key from `Canvas > Account > Settings > Approved Integrations > New Access Token`
2. Gemini API key from https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
3. Gradescope Email and Password https://www.gradescope.com/
   
### Installing via Smithery (**Preferred**)

To install Canvas MCP for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client claude
```

Or, for Cursor IDE to use canvas-mcp with other models:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client cursor
```

Or, for Windsurf:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client windsurf
```

---


### Manual Installation (ONLY for local instances)

Download the repository and run the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp.git
cd canvas-mcp

# Install dependencies with uv (recommended)
pip install uv
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
uv pip install -r requirements.txt

# Or install with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Manual Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following environment variables:

```
CANVAS_API_KEY=your_canvas_api_key
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key
```

Add the following to your `mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json` file:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
      "canvas": {
          "command": "uv",
          "args": [
              "--directory",
              "/Users/aryank/Developer/canvas-mcp",
              "run",
              "canvas.py"
          ]
      }
  }
}
```

---

Built by [Aryan Keluskar](https://aryankeluskar.com) :)

Commit message:

Remove Gemini and Gradescope integrations; simplify functionality.
This commit removes support for Gemini-powered image and query analysis as well as Gradescope integrations. It simplifies keyword matching logic for queries, modules, and resources, and introduces a hard-coded Canvas API key as an alternative to environment variables. Documentation and configuration have been updated to reflect these changes, reducing dependencies and improving maintainability.

README.md, after:

# Canvas MCP

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp)](https://smithery.ai/server/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp)

Canvas MCP is a set of tools that allows your AI agents to interact with Canvas LMS.

![example](assets/example.png)

## Features

- **Find relevant resources** - Ability to find relevant resources for a given query in natural language!
- **Query upcoming assignments** - Not only fetch upcoming assignments, but also provide its breakdown for a given course.
- Get courses
- Get modules
- Get module items
- Get file url
- Get calendar events
- Get assignments
- and so much more... 

## Usage

Note down the following beforehand:
1. Canvas API Key from `Canvas > Account > Settings > Approved Integrations > New Access Token`

### Installing via Smithery (**Preferred**)

To install Canvas MCP for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client claude
```

Or, for Cursor IDE to use canvas-mcp with other models:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client cursor
```

Or, for Windsurf:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp --client windsurf
```

---


### Manual Installation (ONLY for local instances)

Download the repository and run the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aryankeluskar/canvas-mcp.git
cd canvas-mcp

# Install dependencies with uv (recommended)
pip install uv
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
uv pip install -r requirements.txt

# Or install with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Manual Configuration

You have two options for configuring the Canvas API key:

#### Option 1: Using Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following environment variable:

```
CANVAS_API_KEY=your_canvas_api_key
```

#### Option 2: Hard-Coding the API Key (Recommended for Personal Use)

Open `canvas.py` and set the `HARD_CODED_CANVAS_API_KEY` constant at the top of the file:

```python
# Hard-coded API key (replace with your actual API key if you don't want to use environment variables)
# If this is set, it will be used instead of looking for environment variables
HARD_CODED_CANVAS_API_KEY = "your_canvas_api_key"
```

Add the following to your `mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json` file:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
      "canvas": {
          "command": "uv",
          "args": [
              "--directory",
              "/Users/aryank/Developer/canvas-mcp",
              "run",
              "canvas.py"
          ]
      }
  }
}
```

---

Built by [Aryan Keluskar](https://aryankeluskar.com) :)
